a thought experiment when you come to a
dead-end in your life when you're facing
terrible challenges ask yourself two
questions at opposite extremes what if I
tried to handle this myself alone and I
didn't admit to anyone else there was a
problem what if I took that path of
refusing assistance from others refusing
to admit to others
I needed help even though I know I need
help what if I gave it 110 percent and
tried to solve this problem entirely
myself then of the opposite extreme what
if you said and did absolutely
everything you could to get help from
others from government agencies
hospitals psychiatrists social workers
university staff of university what if
you went to the other extreme you abased
yourself as much as possible and you
told them whatever you needed to tell
them to get as much help as possible
right whatever diagnosis that might
entail whatever social services or
handouts you might have to come to and
you know what in doing this thought
experiment you might find out that both
both are bad and you could take the
experiment a step further
easily enough and you can actually try
as I've said in other videos where I
talked about knocking on every door and
trying to get help you might be
surprised to find just how little will
come of it if you if you take option two
if you try to get all the help you can
there may be no help for you at all okay
I got a message from a supporter on
patreon who is 23 years old I'm not
gonna use his real name I'll call him
Tom it's a 23 year old guy named Tom he
is aware that he has a problem he has
ended up kind of disabled by his
upbringing partly due to bad parents
partly due to bad teachers and bad
schools but then both his teachers and
his schools reacted this by taking him
out of school
and sitting down at a desk with a
computer and letting him do online
distance learning so he calls it going
to cyber school so he was taken out of
school at an early age and left
completely unobserved to either do
homework or not study or not and like
most kids he was lazy and self-indulgent
and he chose or not so he didn't just
learn very little but he interacted with
other people
incredibly little today he has great
difficulty making eye contact with
people he's aware that his behavior is
awkward and revolting to other people he
says that he wears sunglasses pretty
much 24 hours a day even at night
because he can't cope with eye content
people he doesn't merely lack you know
what you might call social graces or
social skills but he's ended up
tremendously intellectually and
emotionally stunted in his development
and he knows that he knows he has a
problem he knows why he does a problem
understands the problem and again this
is where we get into you know how
disappointing it may be for you if you
reach F rope he's reaching out to me
right now for help
he's asking what I think you should do
you know if you go to even a
psychiatrist or psychoanalyst would I
have to go to a therapist they're very
likely just gonna be interested in
discussing with you analyzing with you
why it is you're in this situation oh
let's let's talk about precisely the way
in which your parents were bad parents
let's talk about precisely the way in
which your school teachers were bad
school teachers and the specific
traumatic things that happened to you in
school is good he doesn't need that he
knows that he's done the analysis he
understands the situation he understands
the series of steps that led up to it
doesn't need an analyst to help him talk
it through
he needs to change he needs someone to
help him change and I think we could all
say that if he just signs up and joins
the army I'd say maybe the French
Foreign Legion for example if he signs
up and joins a military unit that'll be
happy to have him because some of those
that it's not an elite unit guys French
Foreign Legion would be delighted to
have someone who speaks English um
hit the books now and start learning
French you know probably if he joined
the army and got military training and
just interact with people every day that
would probably feel much more benefit to
him than going to analysis also it would
be traumatic also it would be
I wanted that Gress at this point just
to say every so often I get questions of
this kind and I feel in a very
particular way that I'm getting too old
for it in the following respect I've had
problems and I've come on the internet
and I've asked you people for help I've
looked for help right here on YouTube
and amongst my followers and subscribers
on patreon and long story short ain't
nobody ever gave me any help alright and
let's be here clear let's be clear help
can include advice at several different
stages of my career in the last five
years I really reached out to people
really spokespeople and asked her advice
about what I should do next
in my career or lack thereof notably by
the way when we had to leave baking
college so my girlfriend and I enrolled
together in baking coach we were both
students into baking college I think
tuition was over $10,000 for a very
short program only lasted a few months
and that ended dramatically primarily
because we were vegan well ok you know
what I guess I would say secondarily
because we were vegan but primarily
because the call which was absolutely
awful
the abysmally poor quality of education
offered at that college that was the
main problem the fact that we were vegan
was also a major major problem look guys
I wouldn't say I'm bitter about the fact
that 8 nobody tried to help me after I
went through that situation dropping out
of baking school dropping out of a
college we were studying baking I
wouldn't say I'm bitter about it alright
but I would say it is a profound
disincentive for me to play this
one-sided role where people write to me
and ask them to talk them out of suicide
or write to me and ask them for advice
about career education okay it is for me
emotionally and intellectually my
look on the present and the future and
my relation with my audience it has
profoundly changed since I started this
this YouTube channel it's changed in
terms of political activism has changed
numbers the significance of you to my
life I feel differently about getting
this message and replying to it now not
just because this particular guy Tom is
never gonna do anything for me but
because I now feel I would even say I
know that not a single person out of
mike 10,000 subscribers is gonna do
anything for me not even on the level of
advice not even on the level of care and
concern and you know friendship know
about having a friend and being
someone's friend that's actually quite a
high standard I think a much lower
standard to talk about is having people
who care about you that's much lower
someone may not be your friend but they
care they're concerned you guys already
know I have an unbelievably high number
of brothers and sisters because my
father had nine kids he got a bunch of
different women pregnant so you know I
have a whole bunch of half-brothers and
half-sisters so we want to put it man
and you know when my daughter was born
and not a single one of them sent me a
single email said I'm never gonna
forgive you guys for this never that's
it obviously I don't feel bitter about
it I don't feel resentful about it I
feel kind of joyful about it I feel
joyous in cutting those people out of my
life and any of them get in touch to me
now that's what I tell them I say you
know what I had a newborn baby in my
arms and I sent you a photograph of me
holding that newborn baby and you didn't
have a goddamn thing to say to me if you
didn't care about me like it's not
asking a lot it's not asking for a lot
of interest it's not asking for a very
high level of care we're not talking
about friendship but just oh wow
my brother had a baby alright I don't
think I'm saying the standard do I there
you know what yeah I get a message like
this now from audience
and it's not this guy's fault I think he
just started watching my youtube channel
quite recently he has nothing to do with
the bizarre political history of this
channel he has nothing to do with you
know the circumstances on this channel
that ended up dragging me into court and
all the different sorro's and slings and
arrows go he has nothing to that none of
it is his fault
none of it that's part of the reason I'm
positive would have been mail to make
this video and try to reach out to him
and I mean he asked me he asked me for
advice for what he should do and so on
and you know I nevertheless have to be
honest with him I have to be honest with
you it's not his fault at all but my own
negative experience my own
disappointment when I've asked others
for advice when I've asked others for
help puts me in a tough spot now in
giving advice in caring for others in
giving help because for the last five
years I got nothing back and for the
next five years I expect to get nothing
positive back okay so this guy tom 23
years old
awkward as hell can't make eye contact
with people he has a kind of inculcated
laziness because his entire childhood in
period of education just consisted of
wasting time sitting and staring at a
computer and not really learning
anything so it's like he has an acquired
learning disability at this point right
what is he gonna do I would say that
this is a case or if he could get it
probably the golden mean would be
neither totally denying he has a problem
acting that he can solve this on his own
not asking him with relevant then and
then by the way on that same extreme
giving it a hundred and ten percent
working as hard as possible to solve
their own problems nor throwing himself
at the mercy of the state probably it is
for precisely someone like this that
theater therapy would be you know the
moderate way to go theater therapy
standing on stage memorizing a script
performing a script making eye contact
with the other actors the other people
who are in that therapy
program its routinely done with people
who are recovering from a car accident
they may have had a car accident that
smashed in part of their face they
really difficulty talking and then along
with that they have difficulty with the
self-confidence for speaking in public
or speaking other people right all kinds
of different injuries couldn't just
physical injuries not necessarily brain
injuries that people go in for theater
therapy with but yes there are also
people of a serious concussion have
brain damage and go go to theater
therapy I would say theater therapy is
the more moderate course of action as
opposed to signing up for the military
signing up to join the French Foreign
Legion but guess what Tom you're 23
years old and before you wrote this
letter to me you already figured out the
most important most crucial thing of all
this is nobody's problem but yours you
already have come to the mature
conclusion and this is why no therapist
can help you this is why psychiatry
won't help you you have come to the
mature and correct conclusion that no
matter whose fault it was can blame your
parents you can blame your teachers you
can blame the education system that's
all correct
that's all factually corrected there are
other people to blame and it's not your
fault but it is 100% your problem and
it's going to be entirely up to you to
find the way out of it